# data-architect
Data Architect Challenge by Banpay

The kind of queries requested are typical of an analytics dedicated dashboard. As such, it is convinient to turn the json format into a table so that queries can be customized as the analytics team so desires. The necessary steps for this process are described in the database repository.

Once the table is created and the front-end of the dashboard can be created by taking leverage of cloud solutions like AWS quicksight (if our table is integrated with AWS storage like S3). This solution would outsource the configuration of the dashboard and, if the predictive models are implemented with the cloud provider options, could also optimize performance of the predictive models used. If a cloud provider is to be avoided, a typical UI dedicated framework should be chosen (for instance React.js) to build the interface of the dashboard. Then a schedule for data retrieval and updates should be defined and implemented through State Management and API calls as the bussiness needs require it. 

For the design of the backend two main points should be addressed: database updates from raw data adquisition, and dashboard updates sent through a dedicated API. The given dataset with a json format suggests that data is being retreived itself from a RESTfulAPI. The transformation of the raw data recived from different sources should be contemplated as the data sources may evolve over time. In addition, transformations requested by the users of the dashboard themselves may change over time and should be updated accordingly. On the other hand, the backend could send the data to the front-end through a dedicated API. By building our own customized API we could ensure our own version of authentication, monitoring/logging, and caching optimizations for the database retrieval could be implemented. 

The infrastructure required for the example consists of: comoute resources to show the dashboard, network components to access the database, a database service to provide ETL operations and queries as requested by the frontend, a storage system to secure the data for database operations. The specifics of this implementations in AWS infrastructure are shown in the infrastructure directory.
